# Evaluating the claim CO2-induced green lands cause land surface temperature cooling
<div style="text-align: justify">The article written by Kenneth Richard makes the claim that new studies have been showing that warming and CO<sub>2</sub> fertilization have actually been leading to the cooling of land surface temperatures (Richard, 2021). This piece begins by highlighting journal articles that were previously discussed by the same author. These studies all point a similar idea, that ‘global greening’ has actually been cooling the surface of the Earth. The consensus that is reached from these articles is that the CO<sub>2</sub> released anthropogenically is actually beneficial to the planet as it nourishes plants. This extra nourishment is referred to as CO<sub>2</sub> fertilization and is said to increase land greening and the Leaf Area Index (LAI; a measure that quantifies plant canopies). Furthermore, a claim is made that CO2 fertilization is increasing the carbon sinks present on Earth. Initially, these all seem like positive claims, which makes the reader believe that anthropogenic CO<sub>2</sub> emissions might actually be positive. This article is of particular interest as it goes against one of the most widely accepted claims regarding climate change: the release of anthropogenic CO<sub>2</sub> is one of the primary factors driving the rise of global temperatures. This article is effective in delivering its message, as most people have learned in high school that plants absorb CO<sub>2</sub> and release oxygen. In theory, then, it is not unfathomable that greater CO<sub>2</sub> emissions may lead to better plant health and a higher LAI. The author concludes this article with sensible advice (i.e., planting trees is better for the climate than cutting down forests). Overall, it makes the reader believe that they do not contribute to climate change and might in fact be helping with their CO<sub>2</sub> emissions. 
<br><br>
The argumentation in this article is actually quite effectively done as the author cites multiple peer-reviewed sources that draw similar conclusions. The purpose of this article is the persuade the general public audience that anthropogenic CO<sub>2</sub> emissions are not bad. The article is to the point and written concisely, getting the author’s message across. Kenneth Richard does not possess any particular qualifications to be making these claims, though his Twitter profile does say he is interested in “Climate Science Research” (Twitter, 2021). As he does not have credentials to back this up, he is not a very credible source. Moreover, the article was reposted on a well-known climate skeptics website, ‘Watts Up With That’, making its validity questionable (Richard, 2021). Despite this, the article was relatively well researched; it cites peer-reviewed journal articles, showing consistency within its sources. However, there are a few problem areas with this article that make it lack credibility. Although the arguments made by Richard in the article may initially seem sensible, he is ignoring many factors in his analysis. While NASA agrees that CO<sub>2</sub> fertilization is temporarily making the planet greener, they recognize that this may not be a permanent effect and is actually also driving climate change (Reiny, 2016). Furthermore, research has shown that an increase in atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> leads to thickening of plant leaves, making plants less efficient to act as a carbon sink (i.e., they leave more carbon in the atmosphere) (Kovenock and Swann, 2018). This was shown in a simulation, showing an increase in atmospheric carbon parts per million due to thickened leaves (Poorter et al., 2009). As such, the argument that green land surfaces are increasing is not valid. Thus, although Richard makes a few valid points, his lack of climate-credentials and ignorance of accepted research on the detrimental effects of CO<sub>2</sub> emissions undercuts any claims he makes in his article. </div>
## *References* 
Kovenock, M. and Swann, A.L.S., 2018. Leaf Trait Acclimation Amplifies Simulated Climate Warming in Response to Elevated Carbon Dioxide. *Global Biogeochemical Cycles*, 32(10), pp.1437–1448.
<br><br>
Poorter, H., Niinemets, Ü., Poorter, L., Wright, I.J. and Villar, R., 2009. Causes and consequences of variation in leaf mass per area (LMA): a meta-analysis. *New Phytologist*, 182(3), pp.565–588.
<br><br>
Reiny, S., 2016. *CO2 is making Earth greener—for now*. [online] Climate Change: Vital Signs of the Planet. Available at: https://<span></span>climate.nasa.gov/news/2436/co2-is-making-earth-greenerfor-now [Accessed 11 Feb. 2021].
<br><br>
Richard, K., 2021. *Another New Study Says Warming And CO2-Induced Greening Leads To COOLING Of Land Surface Temperatures*. [online] Watts Up With That? Available at: <https://<span></span>wattsupwiththat.com/2021/01/22/another-new-study-says-warming-and-co2-induced-greening-leads-to-cooling-of-land-surface-temperatures/> [Accessed 11 Feb. 2021].
<br><br>
Twitter, 2021. *Kenneth Richard (@Kenneth72712993) / Twitter*. [online] Twitter. Available at: <https://<span></span>twitter.com/Kenneth72712993> [Accessed 11 Feb. 2021].
